If you were asked to think of two men in the first century who were zealous disciple-makers who would come to your mind,
you may be thinking of Paul and Barnabas.
Together, they traveled extensively preaching the good news and helping many to learn the wonderful truth about Jehovah.
This work brought joy not only to them, but others too.
Acts 15-3 states, so after being escorted partway by the congregation,
these men continued on through both Phoenicia and Samaria relating in detail the conversion of people of the nations
and bringing great joy to all the brothers.
Their shared experiences were a great source of joy to the brotherhood.
They all felt encouraged and united as one spiritual family.
So too today, we have many like Paul and Barnabas who are actively working to find honest-hearted ones.
Let's quickly review the numbers and see what our spiritual families United efforts have accomplished during the 2019 service year.
The good news was preached in 240 lands.
The average number of publishers each month reached over 8.4 million.
More than 2 billion hours were spent in the field.
Also, you'll be pleased to know that the number baptized surpassed 300,000 for the first time in 20 years.
That's on average 5,843 people symbolizing their dedication to Jehovah every weekend.
And there's great potential for millions more to embrace the truth.
On average, 9.6 million Bible studies were conducted each month and almost 21 million attended the memorial.
We praise Jehovah for this growth and thank you for your share in this great increase.
The governing body receives some beautiful experiences and reports this past service year.
And they wanted to share that joy with all of you now.
Would you like to hear some of these reports and meet some of our hard-working brothers and sisters?
Well then, let's go.
We'll meet publishers from 6 regions of the earth and hearing their own words, the effect that the disciple making work has on them.
Here's a quick peek.
We'll see some of their unique challenges.
When it rains, they are so much mud everywhere.
We need to remove our shoes and hold them in our hands.
We'll meet ones who made personal sacrifices.
When I turned 60 and retired, my wife and I decided to serve where the need is greater.
This brother can see but he cannot walk.
And me, I can walk but cannot see.
We'll see the impact the truth can have on new ones.
It may be happy yet can I really dare believe that?
I was actually sort of in shock and really put a spotlight on who I really was.
What bad habits did some have at first?
What pressures did they face?
And how did they overcome that?
One day she asked her to choose between family and Jehovah.
Hopefully that wets your appetite for what's to come.
Now, as we take you around the world, enjoy the stories of your brothers and sisters
and watch for clues to what contributed to their joy.
Let's begin with Africa.
Its stretches from the Mediterranean past the Golden Sahara through mountains and savannas to the Cape of Good Hope.
This continent is known for the enormous diversity and richness of its wildlife.
Africa's population, about 1.3 billion people, is growing faster than any other part of the world.
More than 1,500 languages are spoken here.
The first Christian from Africa, the Ethiopian Unic, mentioned at Acts chapter 8,
likely brought the good news back with him to Ethiopia when he returned home.
Today, over 1.7 million publishers are making disciples throughout this vast continent.
Let's visit our brothers and sisters in Africa's most populous country, Nigeria.
More than 360,000 publishers are sharing the good news with Nigeria's over 200 million people.
The territory is highly diverse, more than 500 languages and 250 ethnic groups.
It's so encouraging to see the response to the good news.
Some 870,000 Bible studies are being conducted and on average 273 are baptized each week.
This is the Utankong congregation in Benwe State.
Here, 51 publishers and 4 regular pioneers are having good results despite a challenging territory.
Preaching in the Utankong territory is enjoyable.
It is just that it is accompanied by some problems.
One is that the territories are very far apart and two, the roads are not good.
It takes us three hours to get to some territories.
When it rains, there is so much mud everywhere.
We need to remove our shoes and hold them in our hands.
Whether households are churchgoers, Muslims or traditional healers, they listen.
Many even accept our invitation to attend the meetings despite the travel challenges.
So it makes us very happy to see that in spite of far territories, bedrooms, we see good results.
I'm enjoying my life now, but when I lost my sight, I thought it was all over.
As a carpenter, I wondered how I would be able to do my carpentry.
The thought of it worried me so much.
But as I began to learn about Jehovah from the Bible, I came to realize that there was hope.
That negative thinking that my life was over disappeared from my mind.
So I am very happy now. I am joyful.
There is a brother named Joseph.
This brother can see, but he cannot walk.
And me, I can walk, but cannot see.
Our hold is wheelchair and push while he directs it.
This has helped us to meet many of our Bible students.
Before now, we were few that went out in the field as pioneers.
But now, we are many.
This shows that the example has helped other people.
Because when they see someone who cannot walk and someone who cannot see a pioneering,
they conclude that they can pioneer too.
This is the experience of one of my relatives.
His name is Cletus. He was very kind to me.
He would hold my hand and assist me to the meetings of the Kingdom Hall.
When he got to the Kingdom Hall, he would leave for his church.
But as he noticed how I preached and attended meetings,
the joy I radiated, the way we treated other people
and our knowledge of the scriptures.
He was impressed and began asking many questions.
The answers he got were quite different from what he had learnt.
What they told him in church.
They continued telling him, get out of there
and that he should not talk to me again.
He studied the Bible, concluded his study and got baptized.
Now he serves as a ministerial servant.
Sometimes they used to assign talks to both of us to handle as a symposium.
And this made me see Cletus as a spiritual brother in the organization and the congregation.
This gives me joy and makes me very happy.
When people notice our activities,
they usually praise Jehovah and encourage us to do more.
Since they know that the work we do is not by our power,
but it is Jehovah who empowers us.
It is true that I am blind, but I can see Jehovah.
I am helping other people see Jehovah's hand in our lives.
Even people are disabled, can bring praise to Jehovah.
I have nothing to do other than to be joyful and praise Jehovah for my life.
We share your joy brother Igbo.
Doesn't it touch our hearts to see Gabriel and Joseph helping each other in the pioneer work?
Their example encourages others to ask what prevents me from pioneering.
Perhaps we are moved to ask that question too.
And did you notice what spurred Cletus to action?
He observed the conduct of Gabriel and other witnesses in the congregation.
What do we learn?
That our Christian conduct often speaks louder than even the most eloquent words.
Now we go to the largest continent in the world, Asia.
Asia is home to three fifths of the world's people,
including some 760,000 Jehovah's Witnesses.
The geography of Asia ranges from Tundra to coral reefs.
From Earth's tallest peak Mount Everest to its lowest land surface, the Dead Sea.
Asia's cultural diversity is greater than any other continent.
The two most populated countries in the world, China and India, are here in Asia.
Let's visit our brothers in India.
With a growing population of about 1.3 billion people, India is on track to become the world's most popular country within a decade.
Imagine the potential for growth in India.
With 90% of the population having not yet received a witness,
our 50,000 brothers and sisters have plenty of work to do.
The good news is being preached in territory that includes mountain ranges,
plains and plateaues, villages and some of the world's largest cities.
Hyderabad is in South Central India.
This is the Hyderabad RTC Crossroad Congregation in the heart of the city.
Here, 94 publishers, including 17 regular pioneers, are conducting 95 Bible studies.
They were delighted to have 252 at 10 last year's memorial.
Let's meet Sungla.
His story actually begins in another part of India, where he learned the truth with the help of Alex and Anidhas.
My wife and I serve in the Pandabhar Sign Language Group.
Currently, there are only three publishers, me, my wife and another brother who is deaf.
We have contact with our own 100 deaf ones in our territory.
Each week, 50 to 60 deaf ones attend the meetings.
When they come, they bring their deaf friends with them.
They also bring their relatives.
We are so happy to see them come regularly for the meetings in spite of the opposition from their families,
sometimes even severe opposition.
They are progressing well spiritually.
We are really happy to see their spiritual advancement.
When I turned 60 and retired, my wife and I decided to serve where the need is greater.
To our surprise, we were asked to support the sign language field.
At that time, we did not have any experience in sign language.
Then our circuit overseer asked us if we were ready to move to where the need is greater.
He asked if we would move to Lachurra, a city that was 521 miles from our home.
Once we reached a city, we were overjoyed to see the interest of the deaf ones.
So, we decided to stay there.
Not long after we arrived there, we met a priest, whose name is Sangram.
He was the leader of a deaf association, and he was short-tempered.
Since we wanted to meet him often, we invited him to our home to discuss the daily text.
He came regularly at 7 o'clock for daily text discussions.
When we moved here, we did not know how to sign very well.
Both my wife and I knew almost nothing.
But after we met Sangram and started to teach him the Bible,
we in turn started to learn sign language from him.
We were very happy. We were really, very happy.
As soon as we started studying the Bible with Sangram,
he made changes in his life in line with the Bible principles.
He changed his hairstyle. He left the deaf association in which he was the leader.
And even his personality changed.
He stopped responding angrily to those who provoked him.
We are so happy about the Bible discussions we had with him,
because with this, his life changed completely.
Soon, he broke almost all of his bad habits.
However, he was still unable to stop his habit of chewing tobacco.
Now, since we loved him, we took him to a dentist and had his teeth cleaned.
After that visit to the dentist, he completely stopped using tobacco.
Within six months from starting the Bible study,
Sangram became a qualified publisher.
And after that, he continued to progress well.
The publisher now has a sign language congregation.
My wife and I then moved to another group.
We are now serving in Pandepur.
When we meet our old studies in the conventions and see their progress,
we are overjoyed.
The very thought that Jehovah's extended us this privilege to serve him
makes us overwhelmed with happiness.
There are no words to express how we feel.
When Sangram showed us his big smile,
did a smile come to your face too?
That's how the truth affects us.
And don't we appreciate the sacrifices that Alex and Annie made
in order to serve where the need was greater?
They had to learn sign language and move far away from their home.
But how did it turn out?
Alex says, they are overwhelmed with happiness.
Imagine that.
They were certainly rewarded for their sacrificing spirit.
We now move west to Europe.
Europe gave birth to the Greek and Roman empires,
the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.
With 160 culturally distinct groups,
Europe is immensely varied and densely populated.
Almost 1.6 million Jehovah's Witnesses
are taking disciples on this continent.
In southeastern Europe, you'll find Romania,
a country of nearly 20 million people.
Today, over 39,000 publishers are conducting almost 22,000 Bible studies.
8 out of 10 people belong to the Romanian Orthodox Church.
The ratio of publishers to the population varies greatly.
From 1 to 4,000 in the southeast to 1 to 7 in Transylvania in the northwest.
Last year, special preaching campaigns were organized
to reach those in unassigned territories.
As a result, 85% of these territories have been given a witness.
Here are the 112 publishers and four regular pioneers
of the Gibo Centro Congregation.
They serve a territory that includes a small city,
rural areas, and large communities of Hungarians and Roma.
Let's see what it's like to make disciples there.
One of the challenges we face in our town
is that we have a small territory compared to the number of brothers.
The ratio of one publisher to about 40 inhabitants.
So we put great emphasis on preaching in the villages around Gibo.
Jehovah blessed our effort and we have more Bible studies,
which make good progress.
When I was still in elementary school,
not yet baptized myself,
I used to speak about Jehovah to one of my classmates.
Her name was Oana.
She was very interested and even asked many questions.
We were both 12 at that time.
A little while later, after I got baptized,
Oana became my first Bible student.
I was able to show her how to prepare well for the study.
In the evening, we used to read the Bible together
and we even wrote down in a notebook our favourite Bible texts.
At the same time, by means of different study projects,
I tried to help her see Jehovah as a real person.
For example, we wrote down on a big sheet of paper,
all of Jehovah's qualities and the way we could imitate them.
Oana made good progress, attended the meetings,
and even started to participate.
I was so happy to see how much joy Oana had in learning about the truth.
Not surprisingly, difficulties arose on the way.
Oana's mother was not happy at all that I was studying with her daughter.
She forbade her to study and one day she asked her
to choose between family and Jehovah
and put her out of the house.
Oana was 16 years old.
I encouraged Oana with the scripture from Isaiah 41, verses 10 and 13,
which says that Jehovah is grasping our hand
and that he will help us.
We talked a lot together and we prayed together.
And after only one week Jehovah answered our prayers,
Oana's mother calmed down and not only allowed her to return home
but also to attend meetings and to continue studying together.
I was so happy.
On 21st July 2018, Oana got baptized.
Now I can finally preach together with my spiritual sister.
Jehovah always gave me the joy I needed.
In fact, I can't find the words to describe the joy I experience now.
Did you notice where and when Beatrice started talking to Oana about Jehovah?
In elementary school, what a wonderful reminder that you young ones can experience joy
by making school your personal territory.
If you haven't tried it already, look for someone with whom you can share the good news.
You may be surprised at the results.
Let's go next to North America.
Now this continent extends from tiny islands near the Arctic
to the isthmus of Panama in the south.
North America is home to almost 2.6 million Jehovah's Witnesses.
The United States is by far the most populous country in North America
with over 325 million people.
Here you can find metropolitan cities as well as vast areas that are sparsely populated.
This territory is cared for by more than 1.2 million publishers
and over 180,000 pioneers.
Meet the brothers and sisters of the Juniata River, Pennsylvania German congregation
in Mifflin Town, Pennsylvania.
As we'll see in the following report,
their unique territory is rich with people who sincerely respect God's Word.
The challenges are territory being so vast.
Sometimes you may drive an hour and a half, two hours just to get to the territory.
One of my favorite joys is getting to use the Bible constantly in this field.
They respect the Bible. They all have one in their house.
Starting this language almost three years ago from a pregroup to now a congregation
with four groups in the area, you can see the growth and the excitement of everyone.
Honestly, I can say it's been the happiest time of my life since I started working in this field.
Out in service one day, just working door to door, I met a lady and she accepted the greatest man book.
Eventually, Memorial season came around. I went and left an invitation with Jane.
We went back the day before the Memorial and were surprised when Jane said,
yes, we'd love to come.
So we talked about a Bible study and eventually Jerry agreed to having one as a family.
But there was a contrast from what I've been taught.
So I was willing to dig for more knowledge to try and figure out what was going on here.
He read scripture Psalms about the earth and I said,
wow, yes, all the things I patron myself doing in heaven is the things I enjoy on earth.
And maybe happy yet, can I really dare believe that?
The more I studied about the Bible, looked up the scriptures, the more I realized I never really knew a whole lot about the Bible.
I was actually sort of in shock and really put a spotlight on who I really was.
At one point, Ben and I went over to make a return visit.
We had planned what we wanted to do with the family and it just did not lend to that at all.
And we ended up playing cards. Instead, we didn't get to share anything from the Bible.
The family was like, oh, it dawned on them. We're real people too.
In the Pennsylvania German culture, people teach pretty strongly obedience to parents to make God happy.
One day, Jerry lets me know that his dad wants to talk to me.
Although my dad meant it well, he tried to stop the study.
But the information that he was bringing to me about the witnesses is not what I saw.
What we were being taught was directly from my Bible I had in my house.
How could it be wrong?
You could tell they were just distraught as a family to what was going on.
They wanted to do the right thing, but they could feel all the pressure to stop.
We eventually had to cut ties in order to continue spiritual growth.
After that, Jerry and Jane just progressed very fast.
They were making changes in their life and they got to really see the freedom that serving Jehovah gives you.
Seeing their joy grow was irreplaceable. It was fantastic.
We have gained a hundredfold what we could have ever lost.
And so as we share good news with individuals and as they make progress, we are very excited and happy.
I would love just everyone to have that opportunity to have that same joy.
What happened when Jerry and Jane read for themselves the truths contained in the Bible?
It deeply affected their thoughts and emotions and revealed who they really were on the inside.
As a result, they now joyfully served Jehovah along with their children.
Ben and Joanna used the Bible skillfully.
They let God's words speak for itself.
And the joy this experience brought them is as Ben said, irreplaceable, fantastic.
That kind of joy is contagious. We feel it too just watching them.
Next we go to Oceania.
This is the collective name for Australia and for the more than 10,000 islands in the Pacific Ocean between Asia and the Americas.
Some of Oceania's islands are known as high islands because they were developed as volcanic eruptions
built up land over time.
Low islands such as the country of Kiribas are made of coral and sometimes barely reach above sea level.
Over 100,000 Jehovah's Witnesses are hard at work in this beautiful territory.
Fiji is an archipelago of some 300 islands scattered over 3 million square kilometers or about 1 million square miles.
This territory is cared for by some 3,000 publishers and over 500 pioneers.
In the last service here, they conducted over 4,700 Bible studies.
These brothers and sisters are in the South Suva English congregation.
Let's see what unique challenges our brothers face there.
Many, if not all, in our territory know about God's Word, the Bible.
However, they are taught false teachings.
The challenge arises when customs and traditions conflict with Bible teachings.
As they study and they progress, they face opposition from their family and of course there's the social pressure that comes from their community.
Added to this is the materialistic goals that are put before them.
So all of this combined really poses a challenge with these ones progressing.
Despite these challenges, some of them eventually do study the Bible with us.
Some have become Jehovah's friends and made the truth their own.
So to be able to show these ones from God's Word, the Bible, that Jehovah is a God of love and to see their reaction that in itself is a wonderful blessing.
I used to study with this young girl. She wanted to make progress in the truth.
But in order for her to do that, she had to overcome these two biggest obstacles.
One was this career that she had and the other was the obstacle from her unbelieving family.
I really don't want to impose the truth on her.
So my goal was to help her understand what the Bible teaches.
Help her see the big picture and let her draw her own conclusion.
I try and be a good example to her by enjoying the ministry myself.
And helping her to understand that is I'm out in the ministry.
I know I'm working along with Jehovah.
Although she had a high paying job, she wasn't happy.
She was always stressed.
When she sees Jehovah's witnesses, despite being out there in the ministry, hot sunny day, rainy day, they are happy.
She knew and was convinced that she would be really happy if she put Jehovah first in her life.
So eventually she had to tell her mother-in-law that she had resigned from her employment.
So her mother-in-law says, and now you resigned.
So what you're going to do, you're going to go preaching.
And then she says, the decision that I've made is going to make me happy.
It's going to make Jehovah happy as well.
In seeing the big picture, she was able to make a stand for true worship and be on Jehovah's side of universal sovereignty.
I attended the Pioneer Service School with her.
You know what really made me happy?
Is seeing ones like her being happy in doing the same work in helping others come to serve Jehovah.
And knowing the fact that Jehovah had actually used me in helping others find the truth and serve Jehovah as well.
To some, Fiji may seem like paradise.
But as we learned, the people of that beautiful land face the same issues as people everywhere.
Stress, pressure filled jobs, and an uncertain future.
As Makareta's student learned, putting Jehovah first is the only guarantee for true lasting happiness.
Our final destination is South America.
South America is home to Earth's largest river, the Amazon.
As well as the driest place, the Atacama Desert.
Animal life on this continent is rich and diverse.
Particularly its bird population.
With some 3,000 species of birds, South America is sometimes called the bird continent.
More than 400 million people live here, including over 1.7 million Jehovah's Witnesses.
There's tremendous language diversity in South America.
Let's visit Bolivia, a country of more than 11 million people, and a wide range of indigenous cultures.
Bolivia presents unique challenges to our about 28,000 brothers and sisters who live here.
Their territory includes the towering Andes mountains in the west and rainforests in the north.
The publishers endure weather that ranges from burning heat and tropical humidity to freezing winds.
To reach remote territories, they may have to cross rivers and drive for hours on poorly maintained mountain roads.
Sometimes just a few millimeters or inches from the precipice.
But how Jehovah's blessing their courageous efforts?
In the last service year alone, more than 42,000 Bible studies were conducted.
Here are the 35 publishers and eight regular pioneers of the Norte Ketroa congregation.
To reach and seek out those who speak Ketroa, the publishers travel long distances.
Sadly, many of the Ketroa-speaking community have been victims of prejudice and do not receive basic education in their language.
Our brothers and sisters spend hours helping interested ones learn to read so they can comprehend basic Bible truths.
Their response to the good news in Bolivia is very positive.
But as we'll learn in the following report, Bible students frequently face opposition, often from those closest to them.
When an interested person begins to learn the truth from the Bible,
at first the family is happy for them and their friends are happy too.
But when the teachings of the Bible are an opposition to popular customs,
those family members and friends may become their main source of opposition.
However, we have also seen many, many blessings from Jehovah.
For example, although the challenges may be great,
we see Jehovah's hand working in the lives of each of these individuals
because they make huge changes.
They take hold of Jehovah, they see him as their God,
and they leave behind popular customs and start to make progress.
It is a beautiful blessing to see a Bible suit and get baptized filled with joy.
Lydia was a young woman who was very interested in spiritual things.
But just like anyone that does not study the Bible,
she had habits that were not pleasing to Jehovah.
She liked to socialize with her workmates,
and at times she went out drinking with her friends.
Sometimes drinking a little too much.
However, despite that, she was very humble.
You could see that she was very sincere.
She appreciated good things.
After seeing these beautiful qualities in her,
I said, Jehovah can make other good qualities growing her heart.
So we set the date to start the study.
We always try to be consistent and to not miss a study.
When a publisher does not miss the day and time for the study,
the devil is not given the opportunity to disrupt it.
Some teachings Lydia accepted immediately.
But others took more time.
Her manner of dress was not appropriate.
She wore tight clothing and very short skirts.
How did we correct that?
By showing her in the Bible that women should dress with modesty and soundness of mind.
It was not easy, but she did it.
After that, when she attended meetings,
she looked like one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
When you plant a literal plant,
you start to water it and it keeps growing.
While you're sleeping, you don't know how those changes happen.
It happens exactly the same way with the Bible student.
As time passed, Lydia expressed the desire to be baptized.
After that, she just kept making progress
and started to serve as a regular pioneer.
Later, she was invited to serve in Bethel.
She has been serving in Bethel for 16 years.
I am one of the 70 persons that lend the truth from Edith.
Her example helped me to be considerate, insightful,
and also to be consistent in making disciples.
Over the years, I have learned so much about disciples making.
Especially that this work is not ours.
When Bible students make progress,
it is thanks to the blessing of Jehovah because he sees their hearts.
So we're not working for a man.
We're working for the most high God.
How encouraging to see ones like Lydia learn the truth
and with God's help make the needed changes.
And what joy it continues to bring to her teacher, Edith,
to see her serving Jehovah today.
As Edith says, when Bible students make progress,
it is thanks to the blessing of Jehovah
because he sees their heart.
Well, in our time together,
we've circled the earth to bring you these experiences.
Did you notice any patterns for joyful disciple making?
Here are just four patterns that stood out to me.
We saw that the first step is to seek out all those
with the right heart condition.
Our brothers in Nigeria,
Fiji and Bolivia spread the good news
despite the great distances,
poor roads, and extreme weather.
Gabriel and Joseph teamed up to overcome their disabilities
and their example inspires us to do more.
Alex and Annie Doss learn sign language
and moved more than 500 miles to serve
where the need was greater.
Then we saw a second vital element in disciple making,
the art of teaching.
We know, for example,
that helping students to reason on the scriptures is very effective.
That was the case with Makareta.
Using the scriptures,
she helped her student draw her own conclusions about the truth.
Benjamin and Joanna skillfully used the Bible with Jerry and Jane.
The power of the scriptures touched their hearts.
And when opposition came,
they stood firm because they were convinced
that they were learning the truth from God's inspired word.
A third element of disciple making involves helping our students
to develop good study habits
and a regular spiritual routine.
Edith and Lydia made it a goal never to miss a study.
Beatrice showed creativity,
developing projects like that big sheet of paper
to help want to know Jehovah as a real person.
And fourth, in every experience,
we saw that disciple making involves love,
showing genuine love.
Alex and Annie took some rum to the dentist
because they love him.
What motivated Cleetus to study the Bible?
The joy radiated by Jehovah's people
and the loving way we treat others.
Angeline gave up her stressful job
and put Jehovah first.
Why?
Because she observed Jehovah's Witnesses
who out of self-sacrificing love
were motivated to preach the good news.
On hot days and rainy days
and she especially noted the joy it brought them.
As you can see,
the joy of Jehovah comes from sincere efforts to help people
and Jehovah's blessing on those efforts.
When you see and hear your brothers and sisters
heartfelt expressions,
how does it make you feel?
Like Paul and Barnabas,
we too may have challenges along the way.
Even some setbacks.
But nothing compares with the deep joy
and happiness that results from helping others
come to know and love Jehovah.
There are still honest hearted ones out there
and they desperately need the truth.
Its experiences like the ones we've just listened to
that help us to see that Jehovah
is truly speeding up the work.
The next time you go out in service,
picture yourself working side by side
with your brothers and sisters around the world.
Just as in a search and rescue effort,
we may feel we're not finding survivors in our area,
but just one report
of a rescue victim being pulled out alive
spurs on all the volunteers to double their efforts.
Imagine the joy Jehovah feels
when he looks down and sees us across the globe,
working shoulder to shoulder
in the greatest rescue mission of all time.
So keep calling out.
Keep searching through the rubble of this dying system
to find those crying out for help
and may your joy abound as you do so.